# Examples files

## 1 XML files

### 1.1 Files from ITB-CNR

All these files were processed by the proteomics team of the **ITB CNR**.
To protect sensible data, we changed the names of every raw file, using the tag word '*test*' instead the name of the analysis.

#### 1.1.1 Discoverer XML

The files were processed by *Thermo Discoverer 2.0 (Sequest)* software  against *Escherichia coli* database.
There are two different formats of XML, that follow different name spaces, defined by the Seattle Proteome Center.

 - The first follows the [pepXML name space](https://regis-web.systemsbiology.net/pepXML/) and there are two identical file inside the folder `disco_pept`.

 - The second follows [protXML name space](https://regis-web.systemsbiology.net/protXML/) and there are two identical files in the folder `disco_prot`. The proteins and the peptides presented in these files are identical to the proteins and peptides found into the files storaged in `disco_pept` folder.

#### 1.1.2 Mascot XML

These files follow the [Mascot name space](http://proteomicsresource.washington.edu/mascot/xmlns/schema/mascot_search_results_2/index.html). There are two identical files inside the folder `mascot`. These files collect proteins of *Homo sapiens*.

#### 1.1.3 Bioworks XML

Thermo Bioworks 3.3.1 (Sequest) exports output XML file in two different formats, without explicit declarations of name spaces. These two formats are very simply examples of XML, because for each node there are not attributes - but only the tag name and the node text.

 - **Peptide format**
  It describes data starting from peptides and, directly under the root, there is a series of child nodes `<peptide_match>` that store the peptide data, included the parental protein as node `<reference>`. The folder name contains the `pep` tag. It is not a regular XML format, because the opening root tag does not end with "`>`".

 - **Protein format**
  This format collects a series of proteins, using nodes `<protein>` children of the root `<sequestresult>`. As children of node `<protein>` there are nodes `<peptide>`, with a series of children nodes defining the peptide properties, like `<sequence>`, in addition to the nodes that store the protein properties, like `<reference>`.
  The folder name contains the `prot_pep` tag.

For each format we saved two different kinds of file:

 - no distinct - the folder name have no indication about.
 - distinct - the folder name ends with `_dist` tag, if contains the data filter by `distinct peptide`, which means that every spectrum attribution of a sequence is considerer.

For each folder we store **two** identical files. These file are processed using *Homo sapiens* proteome.

The folders are:

 - `sequest_pep`;
 - `sequest_pep_dist`;
 - `sequest_prot_pep`;
 - `sequest_prot_pep_dist`.

### 1.2 Other files

#### 1.2.1 Pride XML

These files downloaded directly from [PRIDE](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/). The Experiment Accession number is 8172 and the files account for the data of the paper written by Liu T. et al 2006.

#### 1.2.3 mzIdentML

There are two copies of the same file, downloaded from the [PSI web page](http://www.psidev.info/mzidentml#mzIdentML1_1_0), under Mascot MS MS example.

## 2 Excel files

All these files were processed by the proteomics team of the **ITB CNR** proteomic team.

The excel files generated by Thermo Bioworks 3.3.1 (Sequest) are of two types:

 - Each row describes a peptide and there is a column that reports parental protein.

    - Correct files are stored in `Five_right_onlypept` folder

    - Wrong files, stored in different folder, have names usually contain `onlypept` or `op` tag.

 - For each row describing a protein, there are some rows describing its peptides, experimentally found in the analysis.

    - Correct files are stored in `Five_right_protpept` folder

    - Wrong files, , stored in different folder, have names usually contain `protpept` or `pp`.

All these file were processed using `Homo sapiens` and\or `Sus scrofa` database.

The files processed by Thermo Discoverer 2.0 (Sequest) usually starts with `Discoverer` or `dis`. Correct files are stored in `five_right_discoverer` folder. These files were processed against *Escherichia coli* database.

### 2.1 Correct files

In each folder, every file is a copy of the first `B1.xls`, except for `A1.xls` that contains some differences: one more protein and one more peptide inside a common protein.

#### 2.1.1 Five right discoverer folder

These files were processed using *Thermo Discoverer 2.0 (Sequest)*, *Escherichia coli* database.

#### 2.1.2 Five right onlypept folder

These files were processed using *Thermo Bioworks 3.3.1 (Sequest)*, *Homo sapiens* database.

#### 2.2.2 Five right protpept folder

These files were processed using *Thermo Bioworks 3.3.1 (Sequest)*, *Homo sapiens* database. These files contain exactly the same proteins and peptides of `five_right_onlypept` files.

### 2.2 Wrong files

All these files are used to test if parsers raise errors.

#### 2.2.1 Redundant files

 - The files which name starts with `redundant_accession` contain more copies of one same protein.
- The files which name starts with only `redundant` have redundant peptides.

#### 2.2.2 Files without fields

The name of file indicates which column was lacked. `without_accession` files are without protein accessions and `without_peptide` files are without peptide sequence.

#### 2.2.3 Files with wrong formats

When our parsers use these files raise `Without_Field` error.
When the file name starts with:

 - `dis` were processed with Thermo Discoverer 2.0 (Sequest)

The files `empty.xls` and `empty2.xls` are empty.

The files with:

 - `no_acc` in their names are without `Accession` in header row;
 - `no_acc` in their names are without `Description` in header row;
 - `no_ref` in their names are without `Reference` in header row;
 - `no_scan` in their names are without `Scan(s)` in header row.

All these files were processed with Thermo Bioworks 3.3.1 (Sequest).

The file `only_and_protpept.xls` contains a mixed header of the two Thermo Bioworks 3.3.1 (Sequest) excel formats.

#### 2.2.4 Wrong peptides

These files contain peptide sequences with no standard IUPAC character inside. We use they to test if parsers raise `data_input.bad_format_peptide` error.

### 2.3 Template disco

`template_disco.xls` is used to test the Thermo Discoverer excel file parser.

## 3 Protein Fasta files

We used three fasta file:

 - `Cypselurus_Hbps.fasta` - that contains many version of the same "Heme binding protein";
 - `Ecoli_K12_IV.fasta` - That contains proteins of `Escherichia coli`.
 - and a fake fasta format `out_ex.txt`

## 4 EPPI output files

The files are better described in EPPI manual. Briefly, there are two folders

 - `search_by_mw_csv`
 - `search_by_seq_csv`

that contain the output files concerning the comparison functions for searching proteotypic peptide sets (by molecular weight and by sequence). The files' format is comma separated values or `csv`.

We used these files as results to test EPPI correctness.


